
2024-10-06 : Sisyphus news delivery system

	Author : Ghiunhan Mamut <venerix@redcorelinux.org>

Bug   https://bugs.redcorelinux.org/show_bug.cgi?id=163  has   shown  that   not
everyone of you are reading the news we post on the website and as a result, you
may miss important  news such as the  profile change described in  the above bug
report.

We took the bug-report very seriously,  as such changes can completely break the
system if not  acted upon in a timely  manner. As such, we've been  working on a
news delivery system, similar to what Portage has.

Important news  will be delivered straight  to your terminal every  time you run
the 'sisyphus  update' command  starting with Sisyphus  v6.2410.0. You  can then
list the  articles using  the 'sisyphus  news list' command,  mark them  as read
using the 'sisyphus news read <INDEX>' command, or mark them as unread using the
'sisyphus news unread <INDEX>' command.

For  detailed  information about  the  usage,  use  the 'sisyphus  news  --help'
command.
---

2024-10-09 : Clang/LLVM toolchain update

	Author : Ghiunhan Mamut <venerix@redcorelinux.org>

The  system's default  LLVM_SLOT has  been updated  from version  '17' to  '18',
reflecting the upgrade of the entire Clang/LLVM toolchain to version 18.1.8 from
17.1.6.

The   upgrade   process  is   generally   seamless,   except  in   cases   where
media-gfx/blender SLOT 4.0, version 4.0.2-r1, is installed on the system. Due to
its incompatibility with the new Clang/LLVM toolchain, we have made the decision
to remove it from the repository.

Therefore, if you have media-gfx/blender  SLOT 4.0, version 4.0.2-r1, installed,
it  must be  removed  to proceed  with  the upgrade  and  prevent any  potential
conflicts.

To remove it, run the following command:

	sisyphus uninstall media-gfx/blender:4.0

This should be  done prior to attempting  the system upgrade to  ensure a smooth
process.

If media-gfx/blender SLOT 4.0, version 4.0.2-r1 is not installed on your system,
you can disregard the above instructions.
---

2025-08-08 : Clang/LLVM toolchain upgrade and Blender package removal

	Author : Ghiunhan Mamut venerix@redcorelinux.org

We are preparing to upgrade the system Clang/LLVM toolchain from LLVM_SLOT=19 to
LLVM_SLOT=20,  bringing improved  performance, updated  language standards,  and
better compatibility  with modern software. However,  this transition introduces
compatibility issues with certain packages, most notably media-gfx/blender.

Blender has caused compatibility issues  with newer Clang/LLVM toolchain updates
previously,  and patching  or  maintaining  a working  native  build has  become
increasingly unsustainable.  As a  result, the native  package media-gfx/blender
has been permanently removed from the Redcore Linux repositories.

If you currently  have Blender installed natively, you must  mark it for removal
before proceeding with the system upgrade. To do so, run:

	emerge --deselect media-gfx/blender

Failing to remove  it may result in failed builds  or broken dependencies during
the upgrade process.

Once the  system upgrade is  complete, you  must cleanup the  orphaned packages,
which now will include Blender. To do so, run:

	sisyphus autoremove

If you  still need  Blender, we  strongly recommend  installing it  via Flatpak,
which  provides  an  upstream-maintained  and fully  sandboxed  version  of  the
application. To install Blender via Flatpak, use the following command:

	flatpak install flathub org.blender.Blender

Or, if you prefer a graphical interface, use Plasma Discover.

Using Flatpak  ensures continued compatibility, independent  of system toolchain
changes,  and  provides  faster  access  to the  latest  Blender  releases.
---

2025-09-16 : xf86-video-vmware driver removal

	Author : Ghiunhan Mamut <venerix@redcorelinux.org>

With   the   introduction   of   newer  Mesa   releases,   the   legacy   driver
x11-drivers/xf86-video-vmware  has   become  incompatible   and  is   no  longer
maintained. Keeping  this driver installed  will cause conflicts  when updating,
and in some cases,  may break the OpenGL stack or  prevent proper functioning of
the graphical environment.

To ensure a  smooth upgrade process, the  package  must  be  marked  for removal
before running updates. To do so, please run the following command:

	emerge --deselect x11-drivers/xf86-video-vmware

Once  the system  update  is complete,  remember to  also  cleanup the  orphaned
packages by running:

	sisyphus autoremove

Modern versions  of Mesa and the  Linux kernel already provide  built-in support
for VMware  virtual graphics adapters through  the vmwgfx driver in  the kernel,
making  xf86-video-vmware unnecessary.  Removing it  will prevent  conflicts and
ensure continued compatibility with future Mesa updates.
---

2025-09-19 : Introduction of Hermes Update Notifier

        Author : Ghiunhan Mamut <venerix@redcorelinux.org>

The  Hermes  daemon has  been  added  to  Redcore  Linux to  provide  background
monitoring of package updates. Running quietly in the background, Hermes informs
the user whenever  updates are available and integrates into  the desktop with a
system tray application for easy access.

Hermes is available in the Redcore repositories. To install it, run:

        sisyphus install app-portage/hermes

Once installed, the Hermes daemon must be enabled at startup:

        rc-update add hermesd default

After enabling the  daemon, reboot the system to ensure  the service is properly
started. Once the system has restarted,  launch the Hermes tray application from
the desktop menu. From here, users will receive update notifications directly in
the system tray.

For convenience, Hermes can also be configured to run at every login by enabling
the autostart option from its tray menu.
---

2025-11-22 : Qt 6.10 Incompatibilities

	Author : Ghiunhan Mamut venerix@redcorelinux.org

With  the  arrival  of  Qt  6.10, several  Qt-based  utilities  and  third-party
applications  are  no  longer   compatible.  Leaving  these  packages  installed
will  cause  conflicts,  prevent  successful upgrades,  or  break  core  desktop
functionality.

To ensure a smooth transition, you must remove these packages before upgrading:

1st Step (avoid file collisions):

	sisyphus uninstall designer --force

2nd Step (mark incompatible apps and utilities for removal):

	emerge --deselect qtcurve sqlitestudio xwaylandvideobridge

Once these steps are complete, you can safely upgrade your system with:

	sisyphus upgrade
or
	sisyphus upgrade --ebuild

Once  the system  update  is complete,  remember to  also  cleanup the  orphaned
packages by running:

	sisyphus autoremove
